Blue Eagle (James Dore Jr.) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is not from the main reality where stories are set in the Marvel Universe, but from an alternate universe.(See Sidebar)


Publication history

The character was created by Roy Thomas and John Buscema, and debuted as a member of the team of superheroes called the Squadron Supreme in The Avengers #85 (Feb. 1971) as American Eagle, then as Cap'n Hawk in The Avengers #148 (June 1976), and finally as Blue Eagle in Squadron Supreme #1 (Sept. 1985).


Fictional character biography
James Dore Sr. operated during World War II under the persona of American Eagle, outfitted with a pair of wings which he obtained through unknown means. During this period, he was allied with other heroes such as Power Princess and Professor Imam as members of the Golden Agency. At an unspecified time after the war, he had retired, was married and had a son years later.
James Dore Jr., who was born in Mayflower, Freedonia on his Earth, was an airplane mechanic. He began his career as a superhero when he inherited the mantle of the American Eagle from his father and joined the Squadron Supreme. Dore abandons the American Eagle identity after a falling out with his father over political differences, and adopts the identity of Cap'n Hawk. Cap'n Hawk and the Squadron are used as pawns in Overmind's conquest of Earth-712. The Squadron members are freed by the Defenders, who they work with to stop Overmind.
The Squadron Supreme, as a result of their conflict with the Overmind, institute the "Utopia Program". They assume control of Earth-712's United States, and publicly reveal their identities. Dore again adopts another identity after his father died from a heart attack. Using a costume made by his dead father, he takes the name Blue Eagle.
Dore discovers that the Golden Archer has used the Behavior Modification Device on Lady Lark, and calls for Golden Archer's dismissal from the team. Blue Eagle is later captured by Nighthawk's Redeemers and subjected to the Behavior Modification machine.
Blue Eagle recovers and returns to the Squadron, just in time for the Redeemers to attack Squadron City. During the battle, Blue Eagle kills Golden Archer with his mace, but loses the use of his wings after Lamprey drains the artificial gravity effect from them. Blue Eagle falls and crashes into Pinball, breaking Pinball's neck. Both Blue Eagle and Pinball are killed, with the two being placed in cryostasis until they can be resurrected.


Powers and abilities
Blue Eagle wears a specially designed flying suit of synthetic stretch fabric equipped with artificial wings on his back enabling natural winged flight, that was designed by his father James Dore Sr. (the original American Eagle) and his mother Adrian Dore. These wings had an "anti-gravity effect" that allowed Dore to fly.
Dore was highly skilled in hand-to-hand combat, specializing in aerial combat. He demonstrated a wide range of skill with ancient melee weapons.


Equipment
The Blue Eagle costume could be enhanced with a shield, light armor, and a protective helmet.


Other versions


Supreme Power version
A version of Blue Eagle appears in Supreme Power, a modern revamp of the Squadron Supreme, in the possible future timeline of the Supreme Power: Hyperion mini-series.


Heroes Reborn (2021)
In the 2021 "Heroes Reborn" reality, Blue Eagle is a member of the Secret Squadron. Black Widow and Hawkeye later kill Blue Eagle and take his wings.


References