Citizen V is the codename of several superheroes appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.


Publication history
The original incarnation (John Watkins) first appeared in Daring Mystery Comics (Jan 1942), during the Golden Age of Comic Books. However, the identity was revived in the modern day via Thunderbolts. The various incarnations have usually been affiliated with the V-Battalion organization.
The "V" in the character's and group's name is the letter "V" - as opposed to the Roman numeral 5 - and is derived from the World War II-era slogan "V for Victory".


Fictional character biography


John Watkins
The original version of Citizen V was John Watkins, an Englishman who assisted the resistance in Nazi-occupied France. He led a group of freedom fighters called the V-Battalion. He had a relationship with Paulette Brazee, and assisted Captain America before he was killed in action by Baron Heinrich Zemo. 


Paulette Brazee
The second version of Citizen V was Paulette Brazee (also known as the She-Wolf), the French lover of John Watkins and mother of JJ Watkins. During the war, she was a spy sent to romance Baron Zemo who she betrayed and eventually discovered she was pregnant. When John and the majority of the V-Battalion were slaughtered by Zemo, the remaining survivors had Paulette smuggled to England. There Paulette met a red-headed soldier whom she married.
After the V-Battalion was reconstituted in 1951, Paulette was given the Citizen V role. The V-Battalion began hunting down Nazi war criminals and was allowed to place their secret headquarters at Castle Masada in Symkaria.
In 1953, Paulette was sent on a mission to Argentina to find Nazi scientist Johann Weimer and bring the scientist to the V-Battalion so they could use the Nazi's skills for them. Weimer was murdered by one of the Everlasting, a group of gods who had frequent run-ins with the V-Battalion.


John Watkins Jr.
The third version of Citizen V is John "JJ" Watkins Jr., the alleged son of John Watkins Sr. and Paulette Brazee (although an affair between Paulette and Baron Zemo had been implied). In 1953, he was nine years old so he was presumably born in 1944. Since his father died before he was born and his mother was often away on missions as Citizen V during his childhood, JJ was primarily raised by nannies employed by the V-Battalion. In 1971, JJ asked the Shadow King for help in researching the Everlasting. JJ died when his own son was two years old.


Helmut Zemo

Helmut Zemo took the Citizen V name for his imposture as a superhero leader of the Thunderbolts.


Dallas Riordan

Dallas Riordan worked with the V-Battalion and utilized the Citizen V costume.


John Watkins III
John Watkins III was raised to be a version of Citizen V. He presumably served as a field agent for the V-Battalion before he actually took the Citizen V title and was left comatose for five years. When Helmut Zemo's mind was placed in his body, John was remarkably healthy for someone who had been in a bed for five years. When Helmut was no longer in his body, John decided to change costumes and stayed on as Citizen V. He soon found himself fighting the Everlasting. He installed ULTIMATUM as the leader of the country Rumekistan, a decision which later came back to haunt him. Under the holographic guise of Nenad Petrovic, Watkins orchestrated events to make Cable leader of Rumekistan.


Roberto da Costa

Roberto da Costa led the U.S. Avengers as Citizen V.


Valentina Allegra de Fontaine

Valentina Allegra de Fontaine is the eighth version of Citizen V.


Other versions
The Ultimate Marvel version of Citizen V (John Watkins) is depicted as a normal GI in a special uniform who rallied his men in the face of a Japanese onslaught in 1942. He was shot and killed with his blood staining the American flag. A photograph of this image was released around the world to which President Franklin D. Roosevelt demands a true super-soldier rather than a normal one.


References


External links
Citizen V (John Watkins) at Marvel.com
Citizen V (John Watkins) at Marvel Wiki
Citizen V (John Watkins) at Comic Vine
Citizen V (Paulette Brazee) at Marvel.com
Citizen V (Paulette Brazee) at Marvel Wiki
Citizen V (Paulette Brazee) at Comic Vine
Citizen V (John Watkins Jr.) at Marvel.com
Citizen V (John Watkins Jr.) at Marvel Wiki
Citizen V (John Watkins III) at Marvel.com
Citizen V (John Watkins III) at Marvel Wiki
Citizen V (John Watkins III) at Comic Vine