Dargo Ktor is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He lived in a distant dystopian future, where people of Earth are controlled by the oppressive Corp. He becomes the Thor of that future after realising that he is worthy to lift Mjolnir.
The character first appeared in The Mighty Thor #384 and was created by Tom Defalco and Ron Frenz.


Fictional character biography
Dargo Ktor lived in an alternate earth in the distant future which is ruled by the oppressive Corp. He was a part of the Cult of Hammer, worshippers of Thor's hammer Mjolnir who believed that someone would be worthy of lifting Mjolnir, gain Thor's power, and save their future. Dargo was skeptical at first, but eventually lifted Mjolnir and became an avatar of Thor. After Dargo fights off Loki's minions, it is revealed that Loki was allied with the Corp all along  and has tricked his brother Thor by exiling him into a different dimension. After Dargo learns that Thor cannot return without Mjolnir's help, he sends Mjolnir through the dimensional portal.
Sometime later, Mjolnir returns to Dargo for unknown reasons and he resumes being Thor, battling the Demonstaff and is briefly used as a pawn against Earth-616's Fantastic Four by Zarrko the Tomorrow Man. Zarrko fools Dargo into traveling back in time to Earth-616 to attack Eric Masterson, then Thor's modern-day avatar, whom Zarrko claimed had stolen Thor's hammer. Dargo fought both Eric and Stellaris before Beta Ray Bill, another "Thor", intervened and foiled Zarrko's deception. Zarrko intended to siphon the combined energy from Eric and Dargo's hammers to power his radical time stabilizer and collapse the multiverse into a single timeline, but together the Thors overcame Zarrko and Dargo returned to his own timeline.
Dargo Ktor was the last champion of Midgard. He opposed Thor's half-brother Loki. At some point, he was left for dead by Loki in the ruins of Minneapolis, with his wife and other relatives being killed. Years later, Tannan Six was driven by his curiosity to steal both Mjolnir and Captain America's shield, and ran away from Loki. He met a fugitive from Loki, who told him about the Avengers. Aided by Hercules, Thaddeus Stark, and Deva Van Dyne, they reassembled the Avengers and went out in Minneapolis to find Dargo and convince him to reclaim his mantle as Thor and fight for good.


Powers and abilities
Dargo Ktor is worthy of Mjolnir and hence possesses a portion of all of Thor's powers and abilities, such as superhuman strength, speed, durability, electric and weather manipulation.


See also
Thor (Marvel Comics)
Alternative versions of Thor (Marvel Comics)


References


External links
Dargo Ktor at the Marvel Database