Darkdevil (Reilly Tyne) is a superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by Tom DeFalco and Pat Olliffe, the character first appeared in Spider-Girl #2 (November 1998). Darkdevil primarily appears in the Marvel Comics 2 future of the Marvel Universe. 


Publication history
Darkdevil debuted in Spider-Girl #2 (November 1998), by writer Tom DeFalco and artist Pat Olliffe. He appeared in the 2000 Darkdevil series, his first solo comic book series. He appeared in the 2005 Last Hero Standing series.


Fictional character biography
Reilly Tyne is the son of Ben Reilly (Spider-Man's clone) and Elizabeth Tyne. Before he reached his teens, his inherited powers manifest, causing his body to degenerate. Kaine, the first clone of Peter Parker, finds Reilly and places him within a regeneration tank to slow the degeneration process. Kaine attempts to resurrect Daredevil, who had previously died saving Kaine, and to heal Tyne. Kaine summons the demon Zarathos, which attempts to possess Tyne, but he is saved by the soul of Daredevil, who repels Zarathos. Part of Daredevil and Zarathos' souls to enter Reilly, giving him a demonic appearance. Through meditation and concentration, Reilly eventually learns to project a human appearance, but he now appears to be in his twenties, almost twice his actual age. Following in both of Daredevil's paths, he studies law and becomes an attorney, while taking on a costume bearing a resemblance to Daredevil's and using his demonic abilities to fight crime as Darkdevil.
Darkdevil has fought alongside Spider-Girl several times, as well as the semi-retired Spider-Man. Neither Spider-Man nor Spider-Girl are aware of his genetic relation to them, but Darkdevil has hinted that he owes his existence to the original Daredevil, Spider-Man, and Kaine. Mary Jane Watson notices Reilly at Normie Osborn and Brenda Drago's wedding party and attempts to point out to her husband the boy that resembled him. Peter Parker cluelessly mentions that Reilly resembles Tobey Maguire, a sly nod by writers to the fact that Maguire played Spider-Man in four films.
When Doc Magus, Sorcerer Supreme (successor to Doctor Strange), delves into Darkdevil's mind, he finds three inhabitants: Reilly himself as a young teen, Daredevil, and Zarathos in the form of Ghost Rider.
Darkdevil is seen working alongside Kaine, who he refers to as his uncle. During a clone debacle which resulted in there being two May Parkers (one being a symbiote hybrid), Darkdevil assists Spider-Girl in her rescue attempt only to be confronted by the Goblin Queen and the clone Spider-Girl. Darkdevil was also present with the New Warriors and American Dream battling Silvio Barraca/Silverback.
After the Spider-Verse event, Darkdevil was later seen with the New Warriors (and Uncle Ben/Spider-Man of Earth-3145) on helping Spider-Girl (now known as Spider-Woman) stopping Hope Pym/Red Queen and Entralla by freeing the mind-controlled A-Next. During the battle, Entralla's powers were ineffective against Darkdevil, due to his own demonic powers, and Mayday Parker/Spider-Woman is aware of her family relations with Reilly Tyne/Darkdevil, as she referred to him as her cousin.


Powers and abilities
Darkdevil possesses abilities similar to Spider-Man, including superhuman physical abilities, a healing factor, and a precognitive "Spider-Sense". Due to possessing part of Zarathos' soul, he is also able to generate fire and teleport.


Reception


Critical response
Darby Hart of Screen Rant included Darkdevil in their "9 Best Daredevil Variants From Marvel Comics" list.


References


External links
Darkdevil biography at DD Resource
Profile at a Spider-girl fansite
Synopsis and Reviews of Darkdevil miniseries Archived 2006-06-28 at the Wayback Machine at spiderfan.org
Darkdevil on Marvel Database, a Marvel Comics wiki