Emrys Killebrew is a fictional character that appears in comic books published by Marvel Comics as a supporting character of Deadpool. The character was created by writer Mark Waid and artist Ian Churchill.


Publication history
Emrys Killebrew was created by writer Mark Waid and artist Ian Churchill in Deadpool: Sins of the Past #1 (August, 1994).


Fictional character biography
Emrys Killebrew is a scientist employed by the Weapon X program. He runs a facility called the Workshop, where he is given failed test subjects and permitted to do whatever experiments he wants on them so long as they are eventually terminated. Killebrew hires Francis Freeman as an enforcer to keep the subjects under control, while he places them through horrific and unethical procedures.
Wade Wilson is one of Killebrew's favored patients because he endures levels of pain and torture that killed lesser subjects, encouraging Killebrew to find increasingly creative ways to hurt him. Francis Freeman becomes tired of Wilson's disrespectful attitude and arranges for Killebrew to kill him. Killebrew's final experiment, involving the transplant of DNA from Wolverine to see whether he could recreate the latter's healing factor, gives Wilson a healing factor of his own. Wilson kills Freeman and escapes the Workshop, while Killebrew makes his own escape without being noticed.
Killebrew returns to the Weapon X facility to help Black Tom Cassidy, who is dying of illness. Before Killebrew can begin, Juggernaut arrives to rescue Tom and captures Killebrew. When Deadpool teams up with Banshee and his daughter Siryn to find their cousin Black Tom, they also ended up finding Killebrew as well. At first, Deadpool intends to kill Killebrew for what he did to him at the workshop, but eventually decides to spare him.
Francis Freeman is resurrected through cybernetics and tracks down Deadpool, killing all of the escaped patients from Weapon X. After torturing Killebrew for info, he is able to learn Deadpool's whereabouts and find him. Overcome with guilt, Killebrew sacrifices himself to destroy Ajax's helmet.


Powers and abilities
Killebrew had no special powers, but he was a brilliant scientist with degrees in genetic engineering and splicing.


References


External links
Emrys Killebrew at Marvel.com
Emrys Killebrew on Marvel Database, a Marvel Comics wiki
Emrys Killebrew at Comic Vine