George Washington "G. W." Bridge is a character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by writer Fabian Nicieza and artist Rob Liefeld, the character first appeared in X-Force #1 (August 1991). Bridge is a former mercenary and high-ranking agent of S.H.I.E.L.D., serving as an acting liaison on mutant affairs. He later became Director of Mutant Affairs and was associated with Weapon P.R.I.M.E. During the apparent death of Nick Fury, Bridge acted as the head of S.H.I.E.L.D. Over the course of his publication history, he has been a member of several teams, including Six Pack and J.A.N.U.S.


Publication history
G.W. Bridge debuted in X-Force #1 (August 1991), created by Fabian Nicieza and Rob Liefeld. He subsequently appeared in several Marvel series, including Cable - Blood and Metal (1992), Cable (1993), and Ravencroft (2020).


Fictional character biography
Little is known about George Washington Bridge's early youth. He prefers to call himself "G. W." to avoid any jokes about the actual George Washington Bridge. As a seventeen-year-old, Bridge served in the Vietnam War. He later became a mercenary and joined a group of mercenaries gathered by Cable. Originally known as the Wild Pack, the group is renamed Six Pack to avoid confusion with the organization of the same name.
After Six Pack encounters Stryfe, Cable shoots Hammer to prevent him from surrendering vital intelligence. Cable then leaves using futuristic technology that is unable to carry the team's other members. This act convinces Six Pack that Cable purposely abandoned the group. In the ensuing destruction, Garrison Kane loses both of his arms. Bridge, Domino, and Grizzly manage to escape unharmed. Kane and Hammer survive, but are heavily injured; Hammer is left unable to walk, while Kane receives cybernetic arms.


Joining S.H.I.E.L.D.
G. W. Bridge joins S.H.I.E.L.D., in which he attains the rank of commander. When Cable joins the New Mutants and rebrands the group as X-Force, S.H.I.E.L.D. asks Bridge to investigate the team. Working with the Canadian Department K, Bridge forms Weapon P.R.I.M.E., who all carry a grudge against Cable. Weapon P.R.I.M.E. attacks X-Force, but learns that Cable has left the team. Unwilling to fight his former teammates, Rictor rejoins X-Force; and the rest of the team soon falls apart.
G. W. Bridge returns to S.H.I.E.L.D. and makes peace with Cable after a short fight. Over the next few years, Bridge informs Cable and his allies in X-Force and the X-Men on any mutant-related problems S.H.I.E.L.D. encounters. When Cable's mutant powers begin to increase dramatically, Bridge starts to distrust Cable again and forms a new Six Pack, funded by S.H.I.E.L.D., to investigate Cable. Bridge and Domino are later shown to have returned to their mercenary work, with Bridge having apparently left S.H.I.E.L.D.


Rejoining S.H.I.E.L.D.
G. W. Bridge returns to S.H.I.E.L.D. at the request of Jasper Sitwell, looking drastically different physically. He also has converted to Islam. He is contracted to take down Frank Castle, the Punisher. After failing to capture the Punisher, Bridge resigns from active S.H.I.E.L.D. status and is hired by Sitwell as an independent contractor.
The recently resurrected Death Adder and Basilisk hold Bridge's family hostage to make him tell them where they can find the Punisher. Bridge is then shot and killed by Microchip.
In the series Ravencroft, G. W. Bridge appears alive as a member of J.A.N.U.S.


Powers and abilities
G. W. Bridge has no superhuman powers, but is trained in hand-to-hand combat, the use of firearms, and is a skilled strategist. As a high-ranking member of S.H.I.E.L.D., he has contacts worldwide and access to advanced technology and classified information.


Other versions
An alternate version of G. W. Bridge appears in the MC2 imprint. In a possible future, Bridge has become President of the United States.


In other media
G. W. Bridge makes a non-speaking cameo appearance in the X-Men: The Animated Series episode "Time Fugitives".


References


External links
G. W. Bridge at Marvel.com
G.W. Bridge at Marvel Wiki