Hawkeye is the name of several fictional characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.


Mainstream versions


Clint Barton

Clint Barton was the first character to take up the name of Hawkeye. He was originally a supervillain that assisted Black Widow and fought Iron Man before he joined the Avengers.
Jeremy Renner portrays Clint Barton in the projects set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.


Kate Bishop

At the time when Clint Barton was temporarily deceased, Kate Bishop operated as Hawkeye as a member of the Young Avengers.
Hailee Steinfeld portrays Kate Bishop in the projects set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.


Pretenders


Bullseye

When Norman Osborn formed the Dark Avengers, he had Bullseye become the Dark Avengers version of Hawkeye.


Barney Barton

When Norman Osborn formed a second version of the Dark Avengers, he recruited Barney Barton to be this team's version of Hawkeye.


Other versions


Golden Archer

At one point, the Golden Archer used the codename of Hawkeye.


Marvel 2099
There have been two versions of Hawkeye in Marvel 2099:


Max
Several alternate universe versions of Hawkeye exist in Marvel 2099 and its derivative universes. In "Secret Wars" storyline, Hawkeye is Max, an archer who possesses the wings and talons of a hawk. An unidentified 2099 reality version of Hawkeye, who is also a hawk hybrid, opposed the Anti-Vigilante Act. A third version of the 2099 Hawkeye is entirely human, unlike his predecessors.


Unnamed assassin
On the unified Marvel 2099 reality of Earth-2099, an unnamed person operated as an assassin named Hawkeye.


Onslaught Reborn

An alternate universe variant of Hawkeye, amalgamated with Wolverine, appears in the series Onslaught Reborn. This version originates from a pocket dimension created by Franklin Richards.


Ultimate Universe
An alternate universe version of Hawkeye from Earth-6160 appears in the Ultimate Universe imprint. This version is Charli Ramsey, a Native American who obtained Clint Barton's Hawkeye equipment and leads a single-handed crusade against Roxxon. Initially a solo hero, Ramsey later joins the Ultimates. Ramsey is two-spirit and use they/them pronouns. Additionally, Clint Barton as Ronin appears in the one-shot Ultimate Hawkeye, where he is killed by Exterminatrix.


References