Kismet (), also known as Paragon, Her, and Ayesha (), is a character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. She exists in Marvel's main shared universe, known as the Marvel Universe.
Ayesha appeared in the Marvel Cinematic Universe films Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 and Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 (2023), portrayed by Elizabeth Debicki.


Publication history

The character first appeared as Paragon in The Incredible Hulk vol. 2 Annual #6 and was created by Len Wein, David Kraft, and Herb Trimpe. She first appeared as Her and Kismet in Marvel Two-in-One #61, while Ayesha first appeared in Fantastic Four vol. 3 #11.


Fictional character biography
Originally known as Paragon, Kismet is the second attempt by the Enclave to artificially create a super-powerful being in their Citadel of Science "the Beehive". Their first attempt was Him, later known as Adam Warlock. The Enclave intended to create a super-powerful being to control. "Born" before being fully formed, Paragon appears as a muscular male figure. Paragon battles the Hulk, then overrides the Enclave's control and sinks their Beehive headquarters before incubating itself in a cocoon much like Warlock.
Paragon emerges from her cocoon in a blond-haired, golden-skinned form. As a female replicant of Warlock, she takes the name of Her (a reference to Warlock's original name, Him) and seeks out Warlock to mate with him. However, Warlock had died some years earlier, traveling a short time into the future to steal his own soul with his Soul Gem in a twisted suicide. Confident she would be able to revive Warlock, Her manages to restore and reanimate his body. However, she is unable to restore Warlock's mind or soul and is forced to return him to his grave. She sets out to explore the cosmos to find a possible mate.
Her helps the ecologically ravaged planet U'sr'pr recover, invoking the wrath of the Consortium. She is called J'ridia Starduster by the planet's natives. Later, she is aided by Alpha Flight and the Avengers against the Consortium.
Some time after beginning her quest to find Warlock, Her discovers that Warlock has been resurrected with his soul intact. However, he rejects her, leaving her heartbroken. After this, Her holds a competition among some of the most powerful men on Earth, attaching reproductive pods to their necks to see how they would react. She selects Quasar, Hercules, Wonder Man, Hyperion, Doc Samson, and Forgotten One for this task. Her battles Quasar and is attacked by Jack of Hearts, but is saved by Quasar from Moondragon. As Quasar is the only one who did not destroy his pod, Her turns her attentions to him for a time, until Quasar's girlfriend Kayla Ballantine (in possession of the Star Brand) severely beats her and forces her to return to cocoon form to heal. However, Her decides to become Quasar's companion for a time. During her adventures with Quasar, Her takes the name Kismet, after the Arabic word for fate.
Later still, Kismet changes her name again to Ayesha. During this time, she is under the control of the supervillain Crucible on Genosha.


Powers and abilities
Kismet is an artificial being created through genetic engineering by the Enclave. She has the ability to tap, store, and manipulate cosmic energy for a variety of effects, including the projection of concussive force bolts and flight. The cosmic energy enhances her physical attributes to superhuman levels, and enhances her metabolism and her life force, preventing her from aging, and making her virtually immortal. She can recover from serious injuries by creating a cosmic energy cocoon from surrounding molecules in which she can rest and regenerate. She can reanimate dead tissue by projecting a portion of her cosmic life force into it. Kismet cannot restore a being's spirit (astral self) to a body that she resurrects if that spirit has left the body. She also has the ability to use cosmic energy to rearrange molecular structures (of about three cubic feet at a time).


Other versions


Earth X
In the limited series Earth X, Mar-Vell is reincarnated as the child of the synthetic Adam Warlock/Him and Kismet/Her.


Fantastic Four: The End
In the limited series Fantastic Four: The End, Ayesha has taken over the Captain Marvel mantle in the near future.


Guardians of the Galaxy
Stakar Vaughn, Starhawk, was born to the superheroes Quasar and Kismet in the Guardians of the Galaxy alternate timeline (Earth-691) around the year 2002. Stakar is instantly stolen by Era, the evil child of Eon, and raised by friendly aliens. Kismet retreats to a monastery for hundreds of years, where she vows not to use her powers. Stakar, a grown adult, finds her. Together, they visit Quasar's grave. It is learned, through Era and the Hawk-God Stakar worships, that Quasar had been purposely sent to his death and Eon had been entrapped. Kismet and Stakar dedicate themselves to hunting down Era.


In other media


Film

Ayesha appears in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2, portrayed by Elizabeth Debicki. This version is the high priestess of the golden-skinned Sovereign race. After Rocket of the Guardians of the Galaxy steals from her, she vows revenge on them. In pursuit of this, she observes the cocoon of a new member of the Sovereign and names him Adam in a mid-credit scene.
Ayesha appears in the MCU film Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3, portrayed again by Elizabeth Debicki. She and Adam continue to seek revenge on the Guardians until she is killed by the Sovereign's creator, the High Evolutionary.


Video games
A hybridized incarnation of Ayesha appears as a playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2, voiced by Olivia Mace. This version has the appearance and personality of the MCU incarnation and the abilities and origin of her comic book counterpart.


References


External links
Kismet at the Marvel Universe