Ogre is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.


Fictional character biography
Ogre is originally an operative of the mutant terrorist organization Factor Three. He has no mutant powers, but uses technological gadgets to give him super-abilities. Ogre uses an explosive helmet to force Banshee into battling the original X-Men. When Banshee is defeated, Ogre attempts to kill him and capture Charles Xavier, but is thwarted by Mimic.
When Factor Three disbands, Ogre remains behind in Mount Charteris (outside Burton Canyon, Colorado), one of their many mountain bases. Over the years, the base is occupied by Hydra, the Sons of the Serpent, and the Masters of Evil. After taking Charteris as their base, the Thunderbolts encounter Ogre and convince him that they mean no harm, with Hawkeye offering him membership.
Soon after, Ogre is knocked unconscious by Techno, a former member of the Thunderbolts. Techno places Ogre in stasis, then disguises himself as him and takes his place on the team. Ogre is later released after Techno is seemingly killed by the Scourge of the Underworld.
Soon after, it is revealed that Ogre had been keeping Humus Sapien prisoner for years, believing that he was too dangerous to be released. When the Thunderbolts disband the Redeemers and S.H.I.E.L.D. takes over operation of Mount Charteris, Techno investigates and releases Humus Sapien. The Redeemers battle Humus Sapien and discover that every time he uses his powers, someone else on Earth dies. Eventually, Humus Sapien decides to leave Earth rather than endanger innocents. Ogre chooses to leave with him, in part to gain redemption for keeping Humus Sapien prisoner.


Powers and abilities
Ogre appears to have an increased level of engineering and scientific knowledge beyond the current level of technology, including the design and creation of weapons systems and vehicles. He carries various weapons of his own design, such as particle blasters and lasers.


References


External links
Ogre at The Appendix to the Handbook of the Marvel Universe