The Phoenix Force is a fictional entity appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by Chris Claremont and Dave Cockrum, the Phoenix Force is famous for its central role in The Dark Phoenix Saga storyline, and is intrinsically linked to Jean Grey.


Publication history

The Phoenix first appeared in Uncanny X-Men #101 (October 1976), and was created by Chris Claremont and Dave Cockrum. As of June 2026, the Phoenix Force has appeared in 15 other comics split between the Avengers and Uncanny X-Men. It also appeared in one edition of the Guardians of the Galaxy series.


Fictional character biography
The Phoenix Force is an immortal and immutable manifestation of the universal force of life and passion. It was created by the universe in the void between states of being. The Phoenix Force is the nexus of all psionic energy of the past, present, and future in all realities of the multiverse, the Guardian of Creation and of the M'Kraan Crystal.


The Rise of Dark Phoenix
At some point, the entity ends up in Shi'ar space, where it bonds with a citizen of the Empire and becomes  the Dark Phoenix.


Jean Grey
Centuries later, the Phoenix Force returns to Earth without a host when it feels the mind of a human transcend the physical realm and resonate with its energy. Jean Grey telepathically linked her mind to her dying friend Annie Richardson to keep Annie's soul from moving to the afterlife. In doing so, Jean's mind is dragged along to the "other side" with Annie. The Phoenix lends its energy to break the connection, and keeps a close watch on Jean because it felt a kinship with her. Years later, when Jean is dying on a space shuttle, her mind calls out for help and the Phoenix Force answers and saves her, transforming Jean into the Phoenix.
The Phoenix remains with the X-Men for only a short time. She prevents the complete destruction of the universe by repairing the damaged energy matrix at the core of the M'Kraan Crystal. During a skirmish with Magneto, Phoenix and Beast are separated from the other X-Men, each group believing the other to have perished. In Greece, Phoenix meets a man named Nikos, later revealed to be Mastermind, a mutant who can alter the perceptions of others. Mastermind plants seeds of dissent within Phoenix's psyche by comparing her to a god and insisting she could do whatever she wished. She encounters Mastermind again in Scotland under the guise of Jason Wyngarde, believing the latter to be both the work of the reality-warping mutant Proteus and the lover of one of her ancestors.
An encounter with the Hellfire Club and manipulation by Mastermind and Emma Frost (the White Queen) transformed the Phoenix into their Black Queen. She breaks free of Mastermind's control, but transforms into the Dark Phoenix. She battles the X-Men, flees to the stars, devours the energies of the D'Bari star system to satisfy her "hunger" as the Dark Phoenix, annihilates the five billion inhabitants of its fourth planet, and destroys a nearby Shi'ar observatory vessel that opens fire on her before she returns to Earth. There, the Dark Phoenix is defeated in psionic combat by Professor X, and Jean Grey regains control. The X-Men, along with Phoenix, are teleported to space by the Shi'ar and given a trial by combat. Just as victory seemed certain for the Imperial Guard, Jean becomes Dark Phoenix again. She apparently commits suicide on Earth's moon before Cyclops.
As originally written, the Jean Grey incarnation of Phoenix is Jean herself, having attained her ultimate potential as a psi, becoming a being of pure energy and reforming herself as Phoenix, only to become slowly corrupted by the manipulation of such foes as Mastermind and Emma; Jean is driven mad as she is unable to adapt to her enormous power.
To return Jean to the fold several years later, this storyline was retconned to reveal the existence of the cosmic Phoenix Force entity, which had created a duplicate body of Jean, believed itself to be Jean, and acted in her place while the real version lay in a healing cocoon at the bottom of Jamaica Bay, where the Avengers and Fantastic Four discover her. It allowed Jean to be revived as a member of X-Factor. The extent to which the duplicate and Jean are separate entities depends on who is writing the characters at the time: some instances portray them as inherently separate, while others demonstrate a shared consciousness.
After committing suicide, the Phoenix Force reaches the White Hot Room where it encounters a manifestation of Death and returns itself to Jean in the cocoon. Horrified by what it has done, Jean rejects it and it fuses with Madelyne Pryor (Jean's clone). This portion of the Phoenix remains with Madelyne until the latter committed suicide while fighting her genetic template before joining into a merged consciousness.


Rachel Summers
Another known possessor of the Phoenix Force is Rachel Summers, Scott Summers and Jean Grey's daughter from the Days of Future Past alternate future. The Phoenix Force bonds with Rachel, making her the next avatar of the Phoenix Force. Rachel is one of the longest reigning avatars of the Phoenix, and while she eventually adopts the uniform, she never becomes Dark Phoenix. Rachel has been referred by the entity as "The One True Phoenix".
During an encounter with Galactus, Rachel Summers—completely overtaken by the Phoenix Force—battles Galactus to save a planet he was preparing to devour. The Phoenix Force disrupts Galactus' feeding process and easily defeats him. Galactus accuses the Phoenix Force of hypocrisy and reveals to it that its existence in a corporeal state is sustained by robbing energy used to birth future generations. Realizing this to be true, the Phoenix vows to return to its prior existence of "touching all that is" while allowing an echo of its power to remain with Rachel's now-dominant consciousness.


Endsong and Warsong
The Phoenix Force returns to Earth during the mini-series X-Men: Phoenix – Endsong, where it resurrects Jean Grey from her grave. It is not long before she remembers what she has come for—Scott Summers. She needs to feed from the energy from his optic blasts, and, confused by her own emotions, thinks she is in love with Scott. She realizes Scott is in love with Emma Frost, former White Queen of the Hellfire Club and headmistress of the Xavier Institute for Higher Learning. Through a number of incidents, Jean manages to assert herself and gain control of the Phoenix Force with emotional support from the X-Men. Jean then declares that she and the Phoenix Force are truly one entity, have transcended into the White Phoenix of the Crown, signified by a new white and gold costume.
As a result of a Shi'ar attack on the Phoenix Force, the entity is in an incomplete state and Jean must search out the remaining parts of the Phoenix Force. The consequences of this were partially addressed in X-Men: Phoenix – Warsong in which a small part of the Phoenix Force joins with the Stepford Cuckoos. After nearly losing control to the Phoenix power, the Stepford Cuckoos develop a secondary mutation where their hearts turn to diamond and they are able to imprison the piece of the Phoenix Force.


Kingbreaker
In the last issue of Kingbreaker, the Phoenix abandons Rachel and Korvus during battle with Vulcan's new guard, leaving them both without its power. As it leaves Rachel mutters "Please, not now... Mom." implying that Jean is calling back the missing pieces of the Phoenix Force, and perhaps planning another resurrection. Rachel later says that it was almost like the Phoenix was never with her for she "[c]an't feel it... I can't hear it...It's like it was never there."


The Sisterhood
Around the same time in San Francisco, the Red Queen and her Sisterhood attack the X-Men; first trapping Emma in a psychic barricade by Lady Mastermind. Inside what appears to be the White Hot Room, a woman resembling Jean Grey appears to Emma and helps her break free of Regan's influence with what appears to be a miniature version of the Phoenix energy raptor to let her help Logan, who has been robbed of a lock of Jean's hair that was in his possession. Madelyne uses the hair sample to locate Jean's gravesite, and then attempts to repeat a resurrection ritual with her corpse, but Cyclops had ordered Domino to substitute the body for someone else's and it causes Madelyne to either discorporate or become absorbed into the fake.


Utopia
During a conflict with several Predators X (genetically engineered mutant hunters), the Stepford Cuckoos are overwhelmed and knocked unconscious as the fragment of the Phoenix they captured forcefully escape from the girls' diamond hearts.


Second Coming
During the final confrontation with Bastion, Hope Summers turns into what appears to be the Phoenix and blasts Bastion who manages to grasp Hope's neck. Hope touches the ground, goes full Phoenix Force, and blasts Bastion and the dome. Later at a celebratory bonfire, Emma notices the flames around Hope take the shape of the Phoenix and Emma recalls the Sisterhood attack where the woman resembling Jean freed her from Lady Mastermind's illusion.


Avengers vs. X-Men

During the Avengers vs. X-Men storyline, the event has the Phoenix Force returning to Earth, presumably to reclaim Hope Summers, which leads to a confrontation between the Avengers and the X-Men on how to deal with its arrival. The Avengers anticipate the destruction that the Phoenix could bring while Cyclops hopes to use the Phoenix Force to restart the mutant population.
As the Phoenix Force nears Earth, the Avengers fight the X-Men on the Blue Area of the Moon with Hope caught in the middle, while Iron Man and Giant-Man prepare a disruptor weapon to kill the Phoenix Force. Iron Man pilots the weapon against the Phoenix Force, but when he uses it to blast the Phoenix Force, the entity is forcefully altered and divided into five fragments that bond with Cyclops, Emma Frost, Namor, Colossus, and Magik. They defeat the Avengers and head back to Earth with Hope. It is theorized that Scarlet Witch's spell of "No more mutants" angered the Phoenix, and to calm the entity, a new host was needed along, with five acolytes, to bring evolution , and that was the reason the Phoenix came to Earth.
When the Avengers defeat Namor in an attack on Wakanda, his portion of the Phoenix Force becomes divided between the other four members of the "Phoenix Five", making it harder to defeat them. Spider-Man then baits Colossus and Magik into taking each other out by playing off of their fears when fighting them in a volcano, forcing their portions of the Phoenix to be divided between Emma and Cyclops. When Cyclops invades the mystical city of K'un-L'un, Lei Kung defends the city on the back of Shou-Lao, and reveals it had defeated the Phoenix in a past incarnation. While Cyclops defeats the dragon, Hope is able to absorb its power and defeat Cyclops who then goes to seek the other remaining portion of the Phoenix Force possessed by Emma Frost. Emma had been using the Phoenix Force to control all of Utopia, read the thoughts of everyone on the planet, take vengeance on anyone who had ever harmed a mutant, and dismantle all Sentinels. Cyclops defeats Emma and elevates to the level of Dark Phoenix, killing Professor X in the process.
In the final issue, the X-Men and the Avengers battle the Dark Phoenix, but they are losing as the Dark Phoenix starts to burn the world. As a last resort, Captain America sends in Hope and Scarlet Witch, who together manage to take down the Dark Phoenix, while Jean Grey appears within Cyclops' mind and convinces him to let go of the Phoenix Force. The Phoenix escapes Cyclops' body and enters Hope Summers'. Together, Hope and the Scarlet Witch wish away the Phoenix Force and the damage it caused, in the process activating the X-gene that allows the creation of new mutants around the world.
Even with the Phoenix gone, its effects remain in various ways, with four of the former Phoenix Five—Cyclops, Emma Frost, Colossus and Magik—suffering from various problems with their powers as well as Magneto, due to his prolonged time on Utopia. Cyclops and Magneto's control over their abilities regress back to the level of control that they had possessed in their first appearances, Emma Frost retains her diamond form but only has erratic control over her telepathy, and Colossus' body fluctuates between his organic and his metal parts rather than completely transforming into one or the other. While Magik's powers initially appeared to have been increased to the point where she can channel the power of Limbo on her own, a confrontation with Dormammu reveals that her new power is destroying Limbo each time she used it. It is later revealed that the power disruptions experienced by Cyclops, Emma, Colossus, Magik and Magneto were actually the result of nano-sentinels unleashed on them by Dark Beast.


Time Runs Out and Secret Wars
At some point during the Time Runs Out storyline, Cyclops acquires a Phoenix Egg that he holds in reserve, hoping to use it to end the Incursions.
During the Secret Wars storyline, Cyclops stands on top of the Phoenix Egg during the incursion between Earth-616 and Earth-1610. Cyclops uses it to become one with the Phoenix Force again, and uses his powers to decimate the Children of Tomorrow. After the realities collapse together, the Phoenix-Cyclops was one of the few survivors to come through the Incursion with a full memory of what had come before, proclaiming that resurrection was the goal of their mission. He is killed by God Emperor Doom in a subsequent confrontation.


All New, All Different Marvel
After being shot and killed by Nebula, Thane opens the egg and become the new host of the Phoenix. Using his new powers, Thane defeats his own father and conquers the Black Quadrant. Thane finds Thanos and fights him, causing them both to fall into the entrance to the God Quarry. Inside, the Coven senses the Phoenix Force inside of Thane and separates it from him so that Thane can fight his father as the man he truly is. The Phoenix Force flies off and presumably leaves the God Quarry.


Enter the Phoenix
Namor attempts to take the entity by force, leading to a battle with the Avengers and Agents of Wakanda. However, the Phoenix decides to hold a contest to judge who would be worthy to become its next host. The entity selects Captain America and Doctor Doom as its first combatants. Realizing that the Phoenix refuses to let Rogers die for unknown reasons, Doom forfeits. At the tournament's conclusion, Echo is chosen as the Phoenix's new host.


Hosts
The following are the known hosts of the Phoenix Force:

Jean Grey: The most powerful and complete Phoenix Force and host combination. Together they became the White Phoenix of the Crown. Death has stated that Jean is the rightful owner of the Phoenix Force and the embodiment of the Phoenix. Jean is later revived to be a full host for the Phoenix Force, but she convinces the cosmic entity to stop repeatedly resurrecting her, and let her go so she could live as she wanted.
Time-Displaced Jean Grey
Rook'shir: A Shi'ar that wields the Phoenix Force through the Blade of the Phoenix. He almost decimates the Shi'ar Empire.
Feron: Ancestor of the modern-day Feron whose daydream-like visions prompt the Phoenix to adopt the firebird form.
Necrom: Necrom stole a fraction of the Phoenix Force from Feron that is later known as the Anti-Phoenix.
Anti-Phoenix.
Fongji: Host who lived in K'un-Lun centuries ago and was trained in the Iron Fist. The previous guardians of K'un-Lun decided to keep her existence and the Phoenix Force's connection to the legacy of the Iron Fist a secret until its next return.
Madelyne Pryor: A clone of Jean Grey that is brought to life by a fraction of the Phoenix Force. Sinister later creates six clones to take the energies from the Phoenix Five (Cyclops, Emma Frost, Colossus, Namor, and Magik), and while they manage to siphon some of the energy from the Phoenix, the entity burns away the Madelyne clones and frees the Phoenix Five, who then incinerate Mister Sinister and his city.
Rachel Summers: The daughter of Jean Grey and Scott Summers from an alternate timeline who has been referred to as "The One True Phoenix". Rachel is the longest Earth-born host of the Phoenix and has never become Dark Phoenix.
Professor X: Charles Xavier briefly possesses an echo of the Phoenix Force during his time with the Starjammers.
Diamanda Nero: briefly becomes the host of the Phoenix after her fight with Rachel. She is unable to contain the Phoenix.
Prime: Prime is briefly possessed by the Phoenix Force while it is in the Malibu Universe.
Amber Hunt: Amber is possessed by the Phoenix Force while it is in the Malibu Universe.
Foxfire
Quentin Quire: Quentin reconstitutes his body using a fragment of the shattered Phoenix Force when it comes to Earth, but it leaves him to his "sickness".
Emma Frost: Emma Frost has become the host for the Phoenix Force on two occasions. In the first instance she is unable to contain it, stating that she is not "strong" enough. Greg Pak later elaborated on this in an interview after the second series X-Men: Phoenix – Warsong that "perhaps the Phoenix requires a willingness to open oneself up or give oneself away" in a way that Emma at the time could not, which was why Celeste Cuckoo was the only Emma Frost clone to truly become Phoenix. She later becomes a true host to the Phoenix (see Phoenix Five).
Stepford Cuckoos: The group possesses a fraction of the Phoenix Force that they imprison inside of their diamond hearts. The Cuckoos later lose their connection to the Phoenix fragment, as the fragment escapes their diamond hearts without a known destination.
Korvus: Descendant of Rook'shir and wielder of the Blade of the Phoenix. The Blade is powerless after the connection to the Phoenix fragment is lost.
Captain Marvel
The Phoenix Five
Hope Summers
Thane: The half-Inhuman son of Thanos, the Mad Titan. He becomes a host of the Phoenix Force after his death and subsequent rebirth hatches a Phoenix Egg. He loses his connection to the Phoenix when the Coven separates it from him when he and his father have one last fight in the God Quarry.
Lady Phoenix: Born during prehistoric times, Firehair was abandoned by her parents as an infant at the Burnt Place because of her red hair. A pack of wolves took her in and she grows up a feral child. After her warnings cause a deadly conflict between her tribe, the Tribe Without Fear, and other xenophobic tribes, Firehair contemplates suicide. She is saved by the Phoenix Force, but loses control until she is pacified by the wolf that saved her as an infant.
Moon Knight
Chosen Champions of the Phoenix: During the Enter the Phoenix storyline, the Phoenix Force holds a tournament to judge who its next host will be, choosing many participants from around the world, empowering each of them with a portion of its power and pitting them in trials by combat, with the eliminated contestants losing its power. For the tournament, the Phoenix chooses Doctor Doom, Man-Thing, Luke Cage, Moon Girl, Devil Dinosaur, Orb, Hyperion, Howard the Duck, Nighthawk, Shang-Chi, Wolverine, Valkyrie, Black Knight, American Eagle, Red Widow, Shanna the She-Devil, Zabu, Namor, She-Hulk, Captain America, Black Panther, and Echo. Despite being defeated and left for dead by Namor under the Atlantic Ocean in an earlier match, the Phoenix was drawn to Echo's suffering and refusal to die, ultimately choosing her to be its next host. After resurfacing from the ocean, Echo intercepted the last fights and absorbed the Phoenix's remaining vestiges from the last participants.
Taaia: Taaia of Taa, from the Sixth Cosmos was briefly possessed by Phoenix when entering the White Hot Room after being mortally wounded in a fight with the Beyonders. It used her to separate and attack the rest of the Defenders, but America Chavez was able to keep her distracted with the Eternity Mask, while Tigra summoned the Phoenix's opposite, the Tiger God to attack it and free Taaia from its control.
America Chavez: While fighting a Phoenix-possessed Taaia, she uses the Eternity Mask to steal a portion of it for herself. When Taaia's connection is severed by the Tiger God, America looses hers too.
Dark Phoenix: While appearing to be a gold-skinned woman in a robe, she would later be revealed to be a version of Mystique from King Thor's reality of Earth-14412.
Adani: member of the Universal Church of Truth


White Hot Room
The White Hot Room (or the "White-Hot Room") is the home of the Phoenix Force and where Phoenix hosts go after they die. It exists outside of the Multiverse, but also within the M'Kraan Crystal. New X-Men #154 reveals the White Hot Room to be an afterlife for the Phoenix and its hosts.
After X-Men: Hellfire Gala 2023, during the Fall of X crossover, the majority of Krakoa's population (around 250,000 mutants) were exiled through Krakoan gates into a vast and seeming endless desert; in Immortal X-Men #16, this desert is revealed to be the White Hot Room. While many mutants were able to return to Earth to fight Orchis, a large number of them remained in the White Hot Room with Krakoa.


Powers and abilities
The Phoenix Force can manipulate cosmic energies and tap into the life-force reserved for future generations, which denies their existence. It can wield this energy to project beams of immense destructive force. It can migrate throughout time and space by folding its energy back into itself, causing it to collapse akin to a black hole and then reform itself upon reaching its destination. It can directly absorb offensive energy such as Cyclops' optic blasts or the energy and life-force from a foe. As it is the nexus of all psionic energy, it has mental abilities on a cosmic level, including telepathy and telekinesis.
It allows its preferred host to perform cosmic pyrokinesis, as it allows Lady Phoenix from 1,000,000 BC Avengers to summon preternatural flames that can melt supernovas. For Jean Grey, it allows her to perform cosmic pyrokinesis strong enough to easily defeat Terrax, as she is in complete control of her own cosmic fire that after Terrax submits to his defeat, the fire dissipates at her will leaving him charred. She also uses the cosmic fire blast to counter Galactus. In some conditions, a bit of cosmic fire can easily burn anything it comes into contact, as when it possesses young Jean Grey she unconsciously melts the equipment the medics try to put on her.
The extent of the Phoenix Force's abilities has not been fully clarified. Jean Grey as The White Phoenix of the Crown is able to change the future of a universe by reaching back in time and urging Cyclops to move on with his life.
Another major display of the power of the Phoenix is during the Secret Wars II. Rachel Summers seeks to kill the Beyonder, who expresses both amazement and disappointment in her. With that, the Beyonder gives Rachel full access to the power of the Phoenix as well as some of his own. With such power, Rachel is able to absorb the consciousness of every sentient mortal being in the universe.
The Phoenix often seeks hosts with strong inherent psionic abilities so they can withstand its power. When the Phoenix Force enters a host, a small fragment of its power is left behind when it leaves. Even a small fragment can be stronger than an inexperienced host using the Phoenix Force's powers, such as with Rachel Summers, who has full access to the Force, but her opponent Necrom threw moons at her with only a fragment. When bonded with a host, the Phoenix Force amplifies their abilities to incalculable levels. It can manipulate matter on a sub-atomic level and transmute elements, like turning wood to gold or stone to crystal; on a smaller scale, it can alter the molecular fabrics. It can teleport others across space and open interdimensional portals to instantly access distant portions of the Universe. If an avatar of the Phoenix Force is harmed or killed, it forms an "egg" of cosmic power around them that is incubated in the White Hot Room, and hatches out completely healed. As one of the oldest cosmic beings, the Phoenix Force possesses a high level of cosmic awareness and prescience.


Cultural impact and legacy


Critical reception
Tamara Jude of Sideshow stated, "The Phoenix Force holds a significant place in the Marvel Comics and stands as the most unforgettable element of X-Men member Jean Grey's comic book history. This character-defining arc, known as the Phoenix Saga and the Dark Phoenix Saga, has resonated with fans for decades with its compelling plot, vibrant panels and shocking ending. The legacy of the Phoenix Force stretches well beyond the pages of Marvel Comics. The Dark Phoenix Saga is regarded as one of the best comic book arcs in history and has become a fan-favorite. It is also one of the favored arcs by comic book critics around the world." Tristan Benns of Screen Rant referred to the Phoenix Force as "one of the X-Men's most iconic concepts," writing, "As a staple of Marvel Comics' X-Men franchise, the Phoenix Force has been a fan-favorite concept well known to both heroes and readers alike for decades. But as long-lived and mysterious as the Phoenix is, it's hard for anybody to ever truly know its full story." 


Accolades
In 2006, Wizard ranked Jean Grey's Dark Phoenix persona 38th in their "100 Greatest Villains of All Time" list.
In 2013, IGN ranked Jean Grey's Dark Phoenix persona 9th in their "Top 100 Comic Book Villains of All Time" list.
In 2013, Complex ranked the Dark Phoenix 13th in their "25 Greatest Comic Book Villains of All Time" list.
In 2022, Newsarama ranked Jean Grey's Dark Phoenix persona 10th in their "Best Marvel supervillains" list.
Various articles have assessed the Phoenix Force as among the most powerful characters in Marvel Comics.


In other media


Television

The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey appears in X-Men: The Animated Series, voiced by Jennifer Dale. In the five-part episode "The Phoenix Saga", the Phoenix Force's power is assimilated by Grey amidst the X-Men's battle with the Shi'ar and the Starjammers for the M'Kraan Crystal. In the four-part episode "The Dark Phoenix", the Phoenix Force possesses Grey and turns her into the Dark Phoenix when the Inner Circle Club attempt to use its power for their own gain. Grey attempts to sacrifice herself via a Shi'ar weapon, but the Phoenix Force is purified and resurrects her.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey and Rachel Summers appears in X-Men '97.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey appears in X-Men: Evolution. In "Power Surge", Grey is overwhelmed by her abilities before she is defeated by Rogue. In the series finale "Ascension", the Phoenix Force briefly emerges during Grey's fight with one of Apocalypse's Horsemen. Additionally, Professor X has a vision of the future depicting the cosmic entity having taken over Grey and fighting the X-Men.
The Phoenix Force appears in Wolverine and the X-Men. This version is an entity that takes psychic mutants as hosts, entering their bodies at birth, growing within and eventually taking over once the hosts come of age. It forcibly emerged within Jean Grey, which caused her to lose control and disappear. In the three-part series finale "Foresight", the Inner Circle transfer the Phoenix Force from Grey to the Stepford Cuckoos who lose control, resulting in Emma Frost sacrificing herself to send the Phoenix Force back into space.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey appears in Marvel Anime: X-Men.


Film

Two incarnations of the Phoenix Force via Jean Grey appear in the X-Men film series. 

The first incarnation appears in the films X-Men (2000), X2, and X-Men: The Last Stand (2006), portrayed by Famke Janssen. This version is a purely instinctual, ruthless, and powerful entity that existed within the unconscious side of Grey's mind since childhood and embodies her darker personality traits. Though Charles Xavier put several psychic barriers within her mind to limit its power, the Phoenix gradually emerges as the barriers are removed amidst Grey's work with the X-Men. Following her death while foiling Colonel William Stryker's plot to kill all mutants, the Phoenix takes over her body, kills Cyclops and Xavier, and joins Magneto's Brotherhood of Mutants in their violent protest against a mutant cure until Wolverine kills it and Grey.
The second incarnation appears in the films X-Men: Apocalypse and Dark Phoenix, portrayed by Sophie Turner. This version manifests as a solar flare-like entity and is stated to be a cosmic force of supreme power as well as a fragment of the universe's energy. It entered Grey's body during her childhood, though she was largely able to suppress it on her own. Nonetheless, she struggles to maintain control of her powers. Following the Phoenix Force's emergence amidst the X-Men's fight with Apocalypse, Grey fully loses control and is attacked by the D'Bari Vuk who intends to steal the Phoenix Force for herself so she can turn Earth into a new home for her people. With the X-Men's help, Grey uses the Phoenix Force to destroy Vuk's forces before departing Earth.


Video games
The Phoenix Force via Rachel Summers appears as a playable character in X-Men II: The Fall of the Mutants.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey appears in X-Men: Mutant Academy and X-Men: Mutant Academy 2.
The Phoenix Force appears as "Spider-Phoenix", an alternate skin for Peter Parker / Spider-Man in Spider-Man 2: Enter Electro.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey appears in X-Men: Next Dimension.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey appears in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance and Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 2.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey appears as a playable character in Marvel vs. Capcom 3: Fate of Two Worlds and Ultimate Marvel vs. Capcom 3.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey and Hope Summers appears in Marvel Super Hero Squad Online.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey and the Phoenix Five appears in Marvel Avengers Alliance.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Gray appears as a playable character in Marvel Avengers: Battle for Earth.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey appears as a playable character in Marvel Heroes.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey appears as a playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey appears as a playable character and a boss in Marvel: Contest of Champions.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey, Rachel Summers and the Phoenix Five appears in Marvel: Future Fight.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey appears as a playable character in Marvel Puzzle Quest.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey appears as a playable character and a boss in Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey appears as a playable character in Marvel Super War.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey appears as a purchasable outfit in Fortnite Battle Royale.
The Phoenix Force via Jean Grey appears as a playable character in Marvel Rivals.
The Phoenix Force via Cyclops will appear as a playable character in Marvel Tokon: Fighting Souls.


References


Attribution
This article incorporates material derived from the "Phoenix Force (Earth-616)" article on the marvel wiki at Fandom (formerly Wikia) and is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License (2025-09-17)).
This article incorporates material derived from the "Unit (Earth-616)" article on the marvel wiki at Fandom (formerly Wikia) and is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License (2025-09-17)).
This article incorporates material derived from the "Jean Grey (Earth-616)" article on the marvel wiki at Fandom (formerly Wikia) and is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License (2025-09-17)).
This article incorporates material derived from the "Firehair (Earth-616)" article on the marvel wiki at Fandom (formerly Wikia) and is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License (2025-09-17)).


External links
Phoenix Force at Marvel.com
Phoenix Force on Marvel Database, a Marvel Comics wiki