Powerhouse is a name used by three characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.


Publication history
The Rieg Davan incarnation of Powerhouse first appeared in Nova #2 (October 1976), and was created by Marv Wolfman, John Buscema, and Joe Sinnott.
The character subsequently appears in Nova #6-8 (February–April 1977), #10-11 (June–July 1977), #24-25 (March & May 1979), Fantastic Four #206 (May 1979), #208-209 (July–August 1979), and Rom #24 (November 1981).
Powerhouse appeared as part of the "Champions of Xandar" entry in the Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe Deluxe Edition #16.


Fictional character biography


Powerhouse (Rieg Davan)

Rieg Davan was a member of the Syfon division of the Nova Corps, Xandar's superhuman military.  He was sent into space to perform surveillance on the starship of Zorr, an interstellar warlord. Before Davan could report on Zorr's activities, his ship was hit by a meteor shower and careened off-course, eventually landing on Earth. Davan's ship was found by Condor, who brainwashed Davan into serving him. Eventually, Davan regained his memory and returned to Xandar, serving in the Champions of Xandar.
He was killed fighting the forces of Nebula.


Powerhouse (mutant)

The second Powerhouse is a mutant with a strong hatred for humanity. As Beast is giving a lecture at Empire State University, Powerhouse attacks, intending to spread her anti-human message. Simultaneously, a mutant hater called Masterblaster decides to spread his presence and opinions at the same lecture. Beast battles both Powerhouse and Masterblaster until Spider-Man arrives. While Spider-Man keeps Powerhouse busy, Beast knocks out Masterblaster. Spider-Man and Beast team up on Powerhouse and knock her out.
Wolverine and Warbird see a news report of Powerhouse attacking the area around the United Nations building, where an international debate on human-mutant relations was set to take place. Wolverine and Warbird attack Powerhouse, but are overpowered, as Powerhouse is draining Wolverine's energy and Warbird is doing more harm than good because she is drunk and being very reckless with her energy blasts. Eventually, Powerhouse knocks out Warbird. Without Warbird to get in his way, Wolverine manages to defeat Powerhouse.
Powerhouse works with Masterblaster in robbing a local bank, but is interrupted by Spider-Man, who defeats the two. One of the men present at the bank at the time of the hold-up becomes infatuated with Powerhouse and subsequently visits her in prison, which he intends to continue to do every two weeks for the next seven years, as she serves her sentence.


Powerhouse (Alex Power)

Alex Power, leader of the Power Pack, was known as Powerhouse as a member of the New Warriors.


Powers and abilities
The Rieg Davan incarnation of Powerhouse is a member of Xandarian alien race, with superhuman strength and the ability to absorb energy from any source to temporarily enhance his physical strength fiftyfold, absorb the energy from a weapon used against him and redirect it against an assailant, and even create a psionic link with an opponent with whom he is in physical contact.
The mutant Powerhouse has the ability to drain energy of other living things to increase her own power. She can absorb energy through contact with a victim, even brief contact like a punch. She has demonstrated the ability to fly, shoot destructive energy blasts, and superhuman strength to an unknown degree.


References