The Red Guardian (Russian: Красный страж, Krasnyy Strazh) is the name of several fictional characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics: Aleksey Lebedev, Alexei Shostakov, Tania Belinsky, Josef Petkus, Krassno Granitsky, Anton Ivanov, and Nikolai Krylenko, as well as a villainous Life Model Decoy of Shostakov. The Red Guardian is an identity created as the Soviet equivalent to Captain America, although its use has continued in post-Soviet Russia. In the Ultimate Marvel continuity, the Red Guardian is adapted as two separate characters: Captain Russia and Colonel Abdul al-Rahma.
Characters based on the Red Guardian have made scattered appearances in animated media and video games; Anton Ivanov and Alexei Shostakov feature in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) franchise, portrayed by Zach McGowan and David Harbour, respectively.


Fictional character biography


Aleksey Lebedev
Aleksey Lebedev (Russian: Алексей Лебедев), the Golden Age version of the Red Guardian, first appeared in Namor, The Sub-Mariner Annual #1 (June 1991) as a retcon of the history of the Red Guardian identity, establishing a version who appeared prior to the version first seen in 1967, created by writers Dana Moreshead and Mike Thomas, and artist Phil Hester. Very little is known of him, but he fought alongside Captain America (William Naslund) and the Sub-Mariner at the Potsdam Conference, in July 1945.
He began his career during World War II, and met the All-Winners Squad (formerly the Invaders) on only one recorded occasion, clashing with them shortly after the war's end where he taunted Captain America (secretly the Patriot) that he was 'slowing down' after he was able to catch Captain America's shield. Like the other crusaders of the same name, he was created as a Soviet counterpart to Captain America. He was later apparently killed during the purges of the 1950s, opposing the brutal experiments that would later create his successor.


Alexei Shostakov

Alexei Andreevich Shostakov is the first version of the Red Guardian, and was created by Roy Thomas and John Buscema, first appearing in Avengers #43 (August 1967).
Alexei Shostakov was born in Moscow, and was the husband of Natasha Romanova. Both he and Romanova were agents of the Soviets: the latter as the Black Widow while the former became a test pilot and KGB agent and then trained as a Soviet counterpart to Captain America known as Red Guardian.
During World War II on the Eastern Front, Shostakov shot down a large number of Luftwaffe fighter planes in aerial battles and was credited for helping the Soviet Air Forces win air supremacy over the skies of Stalingrad and Kursk. Because of his skill, Shostakov was chosen for the most secret and dangerous tests and new aircraft for the Soviet Union. This included being the first pilot to test fly the MiG-15. The Soviet state controlled news media greatly publicized this and certain other missions of his such as his aerial battles against the U.S. Air Force over MiG Alley during the Korean War. As a result, Shostakov was decorated as a hero of the Soviet Union.
As the Cold War flared up in the 1950s, Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev realized that the Soviet Union needed its own equivalent to Captain America. Khrushchev chose Alexei Shostakov over Yuri Gagarin, who would later become the first man in space. The KGB faked his death and trained him in secret, keeping his survival a secret from Natasha. He became a master of hand-to-hand combat and a highly skilled athlete. In addition, he carried a throwing disc on his belt which could be used against an opponent. Magnetic force returned the disc after throwing. The disc had the yellow hammer and sickle symbol on it and his costume was red with a star on his chest to symbolise the Soviet flag. While the Black Widow became disillusioned with KGB masters and defected to the United States, the Red Guardian remained loyal and became more ruthless and vindictive. The Red Guardian battles the Avengers with his Chinese ally Colonel Ling, to protect a Communist Chinese secret weapon located at a secret military base. Shostakov is shot and mortally wounded by Colonel Ling while saving the lives of Black Widow and Captain America.
Shostakov is later revealed to be alive and has risen to a high position of power in Bulgaria. He attempts to capture and try Natasha Romanoff for crimes as a Soviet super soldier, but his plan was foiled with the help of Daredevil and the Avengers.
Alexei resurfaces as the new Ronin and joins forces with the Dark Ocean Society to instigate a war between Japan and Russia to restore the latter's former glory. He and the Society are defeated by Hawkeye, Mockingbird and Black Widow with the help of Fantasma, and is taken into S.H.I.E.L.D. custody.
Shostakov is approached by a cadre of several of Black Widow's enemies, who implanted her with fake memories force her to live out a peaceful, simulated life as a married architect in San Francisco. Having already moved on from his hatred towards his ex-wife, Shostakov reluctantly joins the cadre and plans to usurp the group to rescue Natasha. When Black Widow regains her memories and the cadre decides to have her killed, Alexei saves Natasha by taking a bullet meant for her.
In Thunderbolts (vol. 5), Bucky Barnes recruits Shostakov into the eponymous team.


Tania Belinsky

Tania Belinsky, a neurosurgeon from the USSR later known as Starlight, initially assumes the Red Guardian identity and joins the Defenders. Created by Steve Gerber and Sal Buscema, she first appeared in The Defenders #35 (May 1976).


Josef Petkus
Josef Petkus is the fourth Red Guardian, first appearing in Captain America #352 (April 1989), and was created by writer Mark Gruenwald and artist Kieron Dwyer. The character subsequently appears in The Avengers #319–324 (July–October 1990), The Incredible Hulk #393 (May 1992), and Soviet Super-Soldiers #1 (November 1992). Petkus later appeared as the Steel Guardian in Iron Man (vol. 2) #9 (October 1998) and was included in the "Supreme Soviets" entry in the Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe Update '89 #7.
Josef Petkus is a special operative for the intelligence agencies of the Soviet Union and a member of the militant Supreme Soviets. Alongside the Supreme Soviets, he attacks the Soviet Super-Soldiers for defecting from the Soviet Union. Alongside Captain America, he later battled a bear-like creature made of Darkforce. The Supreme Soviets are later rebranded as a post-Soviet Russian super-team called the Winter Guard. Petkus later joins a Winter Guard splinter group called the People's Protectorate, now calling himself the "Steel Guardian". He and his team search for the timelord Immortus, hoping to find a way to resurrect Vanguard's sister Lanyia. They agree to fight off Dire Wraiths invading Immortus' realm in exchange for this favor; Petkus is killed in the ensuing battle.


Krassno Granitsky
Krassno Granitsky, the fifth Red Guardian, appeared in Maverick #10 (June 1998), and was created by writer Jorge Gonzales and artist Leo Fernandez. The name "Krassno Granitsky" comes from the James Bond novel From Russia With Love; it is the Russianized name of assassin Donovan Grant. He teamed up with the mercenary superhero Maverick to battle a crime lord. He also appears in Ed Brubaker's Captain America, where he is executed by Aleksander Lukin.


Anton
Anton, the sixth Red Guardian, first appears in Jeph Loeb's Hulk series as a member of the Winter Guard. Anton claims to be an engineer and a former pilot of the Crimson Dynamo armor, and is later revealed to be a human who transferred his mind into a Life Model Decoy. He is decapitated by a Dire Wraith, although his head survives and is kept in storage.


Nikolai Krylenko

Nikolai Krylenko (also known as Vanguard) is the seventh version of the Red Guardian, and leads the Winter Guard. Created by Bill Mantlo and Carmine Infantino for Iron Man #109 (April 1978), he was redeveloped as the Red Guardian by David Gallaher and Steve Ellis from Darkstar and the Winter Guard #2 (July 2010) onward.


Powers and abilities
None of the Red Guardian's various identity users have been revealed to possess superhuman powers or abilities, with the exception of Tania Belinsky after her mutation by the Presence, Ultimate Marvel versions, Krylenko, the seventh Red Guardian, and adaptations of the character to the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). All are highly skilled athletes. Shostakov was an expert pilot, a master hand-to-hand combatant, and was trained in espionage techniques by the KGB.
All the Guardians but Tania have used a steel shield similar to that used by Captain America. Alexei and Tania used a "belt-buckle" disc, a hurling weapon which magnetically returned to the wearer's hand when thrown, and was a part of their costume's belt buckle. The fourth Red Guardian, Josef Petkus, often employed an energized sword as a secondary weapon alongside his shield. The sixth Red Guardian was an LMD named Anton Ivanov, whose powers are cybernetic based. His falsified backstory was that he was an expert engineer and former Crimson Dynamo pilot; his real strength lies in his moderate degree of enhanced cybernetic physicality.
Nikolai Krylenko/Vanguard is a mutant who possesses a full-body force field that repels electromagnetic and kinetic energy. He is able to direct his field through the technically advanced vibranium shield supplied to him by the Executive Security Committee. He also directs this force against the earth itself to achieve flight. Nikolai wears a more advanced suit than previous Red Guardians, which is lined with circuitry that works in conjunction with the compact computer on his shield, not only enabling the guided flight and return through their digital connection, but the amplification of his energy field.


Other versions


Bullet Points
An alternate universe version of Alexei Shostakov / Red Guardian from Earth-70105 makes a minor appearance in Bullet Points #5 as one of many heroes who battle Galactus.


Civil War: House of M
An unidentified alternate universe version of Red Guardian from Earth-58163 appears in Civil War: House of M #2 as a member of the Soviet Super Soldiers.


Exiles
An alternate universe version of Alexei Shostakov / Red Guardian from Earth-3470 appears in Exiles #84.


Ultimate Marvel
Two original incarnations of Red Guardian from Earth-1610 appear in the Ultimate Marvel imprint:


Captain Russia
Captain Russia is a Russian super-soldier based on Alexei Shostakov who possesses superhuman strength and durability and wields a makeshift shield created partially from human remains. Captain Russia battles Captain America, who kills him by stabbing him through the chest.


Colonel Abdul al-Rahman

Colonel Abdul al-Rahman is an Azerbaijani teenager and the leader of the Liberators who was transformed into a super-soldier by Russian scientists and wields a lightsaber-like weapon. As a member of the Liberators, al-Rahman operates as the Colonel. He is later killed by Captain America and Hulk.


Ultimate Universe
An alternate universe version of Alexei Shostakov from Earth-6160, simply known as Guardian, appears in Ultimate Wolverine as a member of the Opposition, a resistance against the Rasputin family.


In other media


Television
The Nikolai Krylenko incarnation of the Red Guardian appears in the Avengers Assemble episode "Secret Avengers", voiced by Troy Baker. This version is a member of the Winter Guard.
The Nikolai Krylenko incarnation of the Red Guardian appears in Marvel Future Avengers, voiced by Satoshi Mikami in the original Japanese version and by Fred Tatasciore in the English dub. This version is a member of the Winter Guard.
The Alexei Shostakov incarnation of the Red Guardian appears in Lego Marvel Avengers: Code Red, voiced by Trevor Devall.


Marvel Cinematic Universe

Characters based on the Red Guardian appear in media set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU):

Anton Ivanov appears in the fourth and fifth seasons of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (2016–2018), portrayed by Zach McGowan. This version is a reclusive Russian industrialist known as "The Superior" who believes Inhumans to be monsters. He works with the Watchdogs, their benefactor Senator Ellen Nadeer, and later Holden Radcliffe to fight S.H.I.E.L.D. until he is crippled by Daisy Johnson. Following this, Ivanov is decapitated by AIDA, who keeps him alive as a brain in a vat and gives him a series of Life-Model Decoys Designed Only for Killing (L-MODOKs) for his mind to remotely control. Series producers Jed Whedon, Maurissa Tancharoen, and Jeffrey Bell introduced Ivanov with the intention of turning him into MODOK, before Marvel Studios retracted access to the latter for use in the New Warriors pilot (2018) and the film Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania (2023).
The Alexei Shostakov incarnation of the Red Guardian appears in Black Widow (2021), portrayed by David Harbour. This version is the adoptive father of Natasha Romanoff and Yelena Belova. Harbour said Shostakov has "tons of cracks all over him. And he's not the heroic, noble man that [people] want him to be. He both comically and tragically has a lot of flaws". For Harbour's portrayal, he and Black Widow director Cate Shortland discussed Ricky Gervais' performance in The Office and Philip Seymour Hoffman's in The Savages, "comedy that comes out of real domestic need".
In Black Widow, years prior to the film's main events, Shostakov allies with General Dreykov of the Red Room, who sends him on an undercover mission to the United States alongside Melina Vostokoff, Romanoff, and Belova. After concluding the mission however, Dreykov has Shostakov incarcerated in the Seventh Circle Prison. In the present, Romanoff and Belova free Shostakov to help them and Vostokoff destroy the Red Room.
Alternate timeline variants of Shostakov appear in the third season of What If...? (2024), voiced by Harbour.
Shostakov appears in Thunderbolts* (2025). Having lost contact with Belova a year prior, Shostakov started a limousine service before helping her and others found the titular team, which is later rebranded as the New Avengers by Valentina Allegra de Fontaine.
An alternate universe variant of Shostakov appears in Marvel Zombies (2025). He is a survivor of the zombie apocalypse who ends up joining Kamala Khan and Blade Knight in their quest for a ship to take them to space, although Shostakov becomes devastated with the loss of Melina and Yelena to the zombies. In the third episode, he dines with Asgardians in New Asgard, only to learn the food is actually zombie remains disguised by Wanda Maximoff, for which Shostakov ends up becoming a zombie.
Harbour will reprise his role as Shostakov in Avengers: Doomsday (2026).


Video games
The Alexei Shostakov incarnation of the Red Guardian appears in Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2.
The MCU incarnation of Alexei Shostakov / Red Guardian appears as a playable character in Marvel: Future Fight as part of the Black Widow film tie-in update.
The MCU incarnation of Alexei Shostakov / Red Guardian appears as a playable character in Marvel Puzzle Quest.
The MCU incarnation of Alexei Shostakov / Red Guardian appears as a playable character in Marvel Strike Force.


References


External links
Red Guardian (Alexei Shostakov) at Marvel.com
Red Guardian at The Appendix to the Handbook of the Marvel Universe