Rockslide (Santo Vaccarro) is a fictional mutant superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character has been depicted as a member of the X-Men, a student in the Xavier Institute, and a member of the former Hellions squad therein. After M-Day, he was one of only 28 students to retain his powers. He is best friends with Julian Keller (Hellion) and is extremely close to and protective of Cessily Kincaid (Mercury). Despite his earlier appearances as a stereotypical school bully, he has evolved into a good-natured (though extremely boastful) and fiercely protective friend to most of the school's students.


Publication history
Rockslide first appeared in New Mutants vol. 2 #3, and was created by Nunzio DeFilippis, Christina Weir, and Carlo Barberi.
Rockslide was killed during the 2020 event X of Swords and returned in 2024, near the end of the Krakoan Age. In a 2024 interview with AIPT, X-Men editor Jordan D. White stated that he originally intended for Glob Herman to be killed. However, writer Ed Brisson objected to Herman's death, so White chose for Rockslide to die instead.


Fictional character biography
An Italian-American mutant from Boston, Santo Vaccarro is sent to the Xavier Institute, where he befriends Julian Keller and the would-be Hellions. He is originally advised by Iceman, but is selected by Emma Frost to be part of her prized Hellions squad. Santo and the rest of the Hellions go on to win a field tournament and are declared the best squad at the end of the school year.
During Rockslide's summer vacation, he and the Hellions encounter the Kingmaker, who temporarily grants each of them a wish. Rockslide's wish is to become a world-class wrestler. When the Hellions refuse a permanent deal with the Kingmaker, the Kingmaker shatters Rockslide's body with a laser blast. Hellion uses his telekinesis to reassemble Rockslide, and together the Hellions defeat the Kingmaker.


Decimation
Rockslide is one of 198 mutants who retain their powers following M-Day, when the Scarlet Witch removes the powers of most of Earth's mutants. The depowered students and staff are intended to be sent home, but William Stryker bombs their bus, killing Rockslide's friend Brian Cruz (Tag), among others. Rockslide laments not being able to save his friends.
With the mutant population drastically decreased, the Sentinel O*N*E* Squad is sent to watch over the X-Mansion, which houses the remaining mutants. Emma Frost places the remaining students in a battle to determine who will be assigned to become a group of in-training X-Men. Rockslide makes the team and begins training to become an X-Man.
The X-Men learn that William Stryker had been working with the Sentinel Nimrod, who they decide to track down and destroy. During the ensuing battle, Rockslide's body is destroyed after he takes an attack meant for Hellion. Rockslide eventually reforms his body in a larger, rugged form.


World War Hulk
During the "World War Hulk" storyline, Rockslide is one of the students who battle the Hulk when he attacks the institute. He knocks over the Hulk so the other students can hold him down, but is knocked away when Hulk regains his strength. When Rockslide attacks him alone, it appears that Hulk knows who he is and what he can do. Hulk rips off Rockslide's arms and legs, then throws them far away. His limbs are eventually located and returned to him after Hulk leaves.


Krakoan Age
During the Krakoan Age, Rockslide becomes a citizen of Krakoa, a living island that was established as a mutant nation.
During the "X of Swords" storyline, Rockslide befriends the Summoner, a mutant from Arakko. However, Summoner betrays and kills Rockslide when he attempts to rescue Unus the Untouchable. When the Five attempt to resurrect Rockslide, they inadvertently create an amalgamation of Rockslide's alternate universe counterparts who is dubbed Wrongslide. Rockslide is later successfully resurrected, but is trapped in the White Hot Room before being freed.


Characterization


Powers and abilities

In his initial appearance, Rockslide's body was made of granite, with a look very similar to that of the Thing. This granted him superhuman strength, endurance, durability and the ability to fire his hands as projectiles. After Rockslide was destroyed and reformed his body, Beast theorized that Rockslide is a psychic entity who forms a body by assimilating nearby earthen material. Rockslide's original ability to fire off his limbs is seemingly lost in his new reformed bodies. Instead, the energy used to propel his limbs is now explosively released from his entire body, obliterating his form, from which he can recover.
Rockslide's appearance in his rock form depends on the material absorbed; for instance, he assumed a molten form after absorbing rock from Limbo.


Personality
Santo is typically depicted as superficially brash, oblivious, and inconsiderate. Originally, he was introduced as a stereotypical bully. However, he cares deeply for his friends, recalling the deaths of the depowered students, especially Tag, which usually motivates him to perform feats of incredible strength or bravery. He also has a strong sensitivity for his teammates, such as when Dust continued to "beat herself up" over the death of Icarus as well as recognizing that he is not supposed to see her without her abaya. He is very protective of his teammate Mercury. Santo also has a strong sense of honor, telling Anole and Pixie that he would quit the team if they were not included on the roster.


Other versions
An alternate universe version of Rockslide appears in "House of M". This version is a wrestler.
A possible future version of Rockslide appears in "Age of Revelation" as a member of the Seraphim, a group of mutants loyal to Revelation.


In other media
Rockslide makes a non-speaking appearance in the Wolverine and the X-Men episode "Hindsight".
Rockslide makes non-speaking appearances in X-Men '97.
Rockslide appears in Marvel Snap.


References


External links
Rockslide at Marvel.com
"Rockslide". Marvel.com. Archived from the original on September 6, 2017.