Scatterbrain (Will Deguchi) is a superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is depicted as a member of the Strikeforce: Morituri. The character was created by Peter B. Gillis and Brent Anderson.


Publication history
Scatterbrain (Will Deguchi) was created by writer Peter B. Gillis and artist Brent Anderson and debuted in Strikeforce: Morituri #6 (May 1987). The codename "Scatterbrain" was introduced in issue #8, in which he also joined the title cast of Strikeforce: Morituri. Scatterbrain remained in the regular cast of the book until his incapacitation in issue #18. He finally died in issue #24, the last character of the series to die of the Morituri effect. Subsequent issues saw appearances of what appeared to be his ghost, until, in the Strikeforce: Morituri: Electric Undertow miniseries, it was revealed to be a sentient artificial intelligence modeled after Scatterbrain.


Fictional character biography
In 2073, Will Deguchi volunteers for the Morituri program, hoping to assist in the ongoing war of Earth against the alien invaders known as the Horde. The aforementioned program grants superhuman powers to ordinary humans, in turn transforming them into super-powered soldiers against the Horde. However, the process is unstable and inevitably kills its recipients within a year. Nevertheless, after proving genetically compatible for the process, Deguchi decides to undergo it. Deguchi is the last of the so-called second generation of Morituri to go through the process, preceded by Toxyn and Scaredycat. Having now developed the ability to project emotions, but in a rather unfocused manner and across groups of people, Deguchi is given the humorous codename Scatterbrain by Scaredycat. Scatterbrain's left leg is severely injured during a training exercise, forcing him to use a leg brace and flight boots for mobility.
Initially, Scatterbrain could only transmit psychological conditions, ranging from drunkenness and sobriety to fear and nausea, albeit in an unfocused manner, often affecting his own teammates. Over time, his control over his power increased and it became more sophisticated. His telepathy grew to the point he was now also able to sense the emotions and read the minds of his fellow Morituri. However, he loses control of his powers, leaving him unable to turn off his telepathy.
Around the same time, Scaredycat enters a relationship with Scatterbrain, who foresees that she is the next member to die of the Morituri effect. Shortly afterwards, the Morituri battle a group of Hordians and kill one of their highest warlords. Scatterbrain locks into the dying alien's mind, longing to see what awaited him after death. Seeing only darkness and pain, Scatterbrain lashes out with his powers, killing the remaining Hordians and rendering himself comatose. Scatterbrain dies several months later from his injuries, shortly before he would have died from the Morituri effect.


Artificial intelligence
Shortly before Scatterbrain's death, Scanner encounters what appears to be Scatterbrain, who visits him in his dreams. It is later revealed that this Scatterbrain was an artificial intelligence developed by the United States in the late 20th century for military purposes. The Soviet Union tried to erase the A.I. with a virus, but failed, only making it stronger, as it attained sentience. The A.I. then took over world communications and began influencing global developments, leading to the formation of a world government and the formation of Morituri.


References