Shear (Walther Feyzioglu) is a superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is depicted as a member of the Strikeforce: Morituri (a series in its own mostly self-contained continuity). The character was created by Peter B. Gillis and Brent Anderson.


Publication history
Shear was created by writer Peter B. Gillis and artist Brent Anderson and debuted in Strikeforce: Morituri #13 (December 1987). Shear remained in the regular cast of the book until his death in Strikeforce: Morituri #25.


Fictional character biography
Walther Feyzioglu was born in Germany, the son of Turkish immigrants. He grew to become an aggressive young man, partially because of the racism his family faced. In 2073, Feyzioglu is working in a factory in İzmir, Turkey when he applied to participate in the Morituri program, a scientific program which grants superhuman abilities to its recipients, to be used as Earth's soldiers in its ongoing war against the invading alien Horde. However, the process inevitably kills its recipients within a year, due to an unsolvable flaw.
Eager to fight the Horde, Feyzioglu applies for the process and is qualified as one of the few genetically eligible to undertake it. He develops the ability to disrupt molecular bonds from a meter away, for both inorganic and organic matter. Subsequently, he gained the codename "Shear" and joins the third generation of Strikeforce: Morituri.
Shear proves to be extremely aggressive and bloodthirsty in battle. To demonstrate that he has no mercy for his enemies, he starts wearing a costume based on that of the Punisher, drawing parallels between Punisher's lack of mercy towards enemies and his own. He also proves to be undisciplined and often defies his superiors, the Paedia World Government, feeling that the Morituri are being exploited and used as expendable pawns. When one of the team members, Radian, is perceived as having gone traitorous, Shear kills him in retaliation.
Yuri Pogorelich, commander of the Morituri, decides to appoint Shear the new squad leader of Strikeforce: Morituri, which he declines. Despite Shear's wishes to the contrary, Pogorelich forces him to his new position, although the task was later given to another team member, Brava.


Death
During a battle in which the team is protecting a TV station from the Horde, Backhand explodes due to the Morituri effect. As a result, Shear is injured in the head. Unbeknownst to him, he develops a brain tumor, which causes him to suffer from headaches and become increasingly paranoid, believing that he is being targeted as part of a large conspiracy. In a psychotic fit, Shear murders Commander Pogorelich. The team engages him, and, during a confrontation with Scanner, Shear falls to his death.


References