Silencer is the name of several characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.


Publication history
The Count Barzon version of Silencer first appeared in Marvel Premiere #49 and was created by Mark Evanier and Sal Buscema.
The Akyia Badaranaike version of Silencer was created by writer Peter B. Gillis and artist Brent Anderson and debuted in Strikeforce: Morituri #13 (December 1987), whereupon she joins the title cast until her death in issue #23. She was the only African and second black team member to be featured in the cast, after Adept.
The Dean Helm version of Silencer was a supervillain and made his first and only appearance in Hawkeye #2 (1983), created by Mark Gruenwald.
The fifth version appeared in She-Hulk volume 2, #5.


Fictional character biography


Count Barzon

Count Barzon accepts an assignment from the Bodavian Freedom Party to assassinate the outspoken and troublesome editorializer Sigjid Roshkoff. As Silencer, Barzon abducts Roshkoff at the Bodavian embassy and has him write a confession retracting the editorials before killing him. Later, Silencer attacks a Communist rally to throw off suspicion. When Falcon confronts him, Silencer throws a grenade and escapes. During a rally in Roshkoff's honor, Barzon hires a thug named Hal Doerner to pose as Silencer and throw off suspicion towards him. Falcon follows a clue in Roshkoff's confession letter. After deducing that Barzon was the culprit, Falcon apprehends him and hands him over to the police.


Akyia Badaranaike
Akiya Badaranaike lived a peaceful life in Africa until the alien Horde declared war on Earth, conquered most of Africa, and killed Akiya's family. Later, her lover is also killed by the Horde, leaving her with intense hatred for the aliens and a desire to avenge her loved ones. While in a refugee camp in Gabon, Akiya is found genetically eligible to undergo the elite Morituri process and decides to volunteer for the program. Her self-described goal is to make the world a better place for lovers by killing as many Hordians as possible.
The Morituri process grants superhuman abilities to its subjects, who are used as soldiers in combat against the Horde. However, the process is unstable and kills its recipients within a year of receiving it. Nevertheless, Akiya agrees to the process and gains the ability to psychically break down sound waves, thus producing silence. Akiya names herself "Silencer" and joins the third generation of Strikeforce: Morituri.
Months later, the Morituri learn that a team of doctors had attempted to produce new Morituri without the supervision of the inventor of the process, Kimmo Tuolema. The rushed and careless efforts of the doctors resulted in the new Morituri assuming monstrous forms. Silencer euthanizes the Morituri by stopping their hearts, which greatly upsets her.
Sometime later, Silencer enters a relationship with fellow team member Hardcase after he confesses to her that he would have died a virgin without ever having felt the love of a woman. Shortly afterwards, the team defends a chocolate factory from being plundered by the Horde. As the group exits the factory, the Horde attacks and incinerates Hardcase and Silencer with a microwave cannon.


Dean Helm
Silencer is an assassin who Crossfire hires Silencer to kill Hawkeye after Hawkeye and Mockingbird learn of the illegal doings of Cross Technological Enterprises. Hawkeye foils Silencer's attack, but Silencer manages to escape. Later that night, Hawkeye and Mockingbird break into Cross Technological Enterprises to try to find incriminating evidence, but are interrupted by Silencer. During the fight, both Silencer and Hawkeye fall out of a window and land on Hawkeye's skycycle. The two battle on the skycycle until they both fell towards a smokestack. Hawkeye grabs Silencer’s foot and pulls him into the smokestack, presumably killing him.
Although the character's name is unrevealed during his first appearance, Silencer's real name is revealed to be Dean Helm in the Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe A-Z #3.


Mob enforcer
The Silencer is an unnamed mob enforcer who joins a gang into looking for evidence to link crime boss Alphonse Scarpetti to a series of killings. They start by tracking down Sam "Big Bear" Lincoln, a former boxer and mob enforcer who now works as a janitor at the Hayden Planetarium. They are unable to get the answers out of Lincoln, so Silencer kills him. Elektra confronts the group and learns that Scarpetti is behind the attacks. After tracing the information the Hayden Planetarium, Spider-Man and Elektra encounter Silencer, who is posing as a part of a black hole mural. During the fight, Spider-Man pushes Silencer into a meteorite on display, which he is absorbed into.


Unnamed Silencer
The fifth Silencer is an inmate at the Big House prison who the Mad Thinker recruits alongside several other prisoners in an escape plan. Silencer used her abilities to silence the sound of their escape while Scorpion was being attacked by one of Vermin's rats. After taking out the guards, Silencer and the other escapees stowed away on a visiting She-Hulk.


Powers and abilities
The Count Barzon version of Silencer wields a gun that removes the power of speech from whoever it strikes.
The Akiya Badaranaike version of Silencer has the ability to nullify sound waves. She also has enhanced strength.
The Dean Helm version of Silencer has no superhuman abilities. His uniform contains a device which nullifies all sonic energy within his vicinity. Hence, he cannot speak, nor does he make any noise as he moves. He is also equipped with a semi-automatic German Luger pistol, which in turn does not make any noise either. Silencer's uniform is insulated, making him immune to electronic attacks.
The mob enforcer version of Silencer has super-strength, teleportation, and a body composed of an unnamed murky substance which left him invulnerable and enabled him to shapeshift.
The unnamed Silencer can generate a "null sound" which nullifies any sound within a certain distance.


References


External links
Silencer (Dean Helm) at The Appendix to the Handbook of the Marvel Universe
Silencer (Unnamed) at The Appendix to the Handbook of the Marvel Universe