White Tiger is a fictional animal superhero character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character has been depicted as a white Bengal tigress capable of mutating into a woman, that appeared in the series Heroes for Hire. She is the second character to use the identity of the White Tiger, the first being Hector Ayala.


Fictional character biography
When the High Evolutionary mutated a wolf into a powerful creature called the Man-Beast, his creation turned evil and escaped. High Evolutionary created a second altered animal to catch his rogue wolf. He mutated a white Bengal tigress into a humanoid form, whom he named the White Tiger. Unlike the other New Men, she can transform between her normal and humanoid forms at will.
During her quest, White Tiger encounters the U-Foes and falls in love with their leader, Vector. When the U-Foes attack the Vault prison, White Tiger leaves the team. She eventually encounters Iron Fist and joins his team, Heroes for Hire. White Tiger tries to keep her origins a secret, but during a training session with Iron Fist, he defeats her several times in mock combat. White Tiger's anger overwhelms her, causing her to revert to her tiger form. She fears that she will be shunned, but is ultimately accepted as part of the team.

White Tiger later becomes attracted to Iron Fist, but learns that he is already in love with Misty Knight and attempts to attack her. Heartbroken by the experience, White Tiger returns to the High Evolutionary and has him devolve her and return her to the wild.
In the X-Men: Endangered Species storyline, it is revealed that the White Tiger has a sister who was altered into a humanoid white tiger called Snow Queen.


Powers and abilities
White Tiger is an expert martial artist who has cat-like speed and reflexes. Her gloves are equipped with razor-sharp claws. If angered, White Tiger can return to her tiger form, and in this form, she has powerful claws, superhuman strength, and enhanced senses. She can even assume a human/tiger hybrid form, becoming a weretiger.
In order for White Tiger to be able to confront and capture Man-Beast, High Evolutionary endowed her with resistance to psionic powers, making White Tiger immune to Man-Beast's mind-control abilities.


References


External links
Her profile at the Appendix to the Marvel Handbook